Read the next step that we're going to be talking about here is how can we use penders the inner freedom
place specific functions.
So let's assume they find a function again.
We we we covered functions before.
So you as I'm assuming those are experts now by now when it comes to function let's assume they have
a function that let's say perform kind of a cellular raise you Centre with a certain salary or hourly
rate and then it as let's say raise of two dollars for those.
So again the function is called Def sellery Raise it send it send it the argument why what it does is
just return y plus two which is simply put just adds whatever argument to the function you can add to
to it if you under this.
That's my function.
What you could do instead of actually going there and accessing different elements within the penders
been offline you can actually just apply a certain function right away and that's the power of penders.
You can just load huge amount of data okay which is huge Excel data within Python and what we could
do.
We can define whatever function call a specific column and apply function to it which is very very extremely
powerful.
So I could do.
You'd want to look.
When I look at the sanity column what I'm going to do here going funky d.f. I'm looking for the Salida
column.
That's how you access that sanity column and then you can use the dot apply to apply a specific function
which essentially you can possibly move the function here.
If you run that then you would see you came up with a salary which is 35 became 37 29 became thirty
one.
You simply added to each of these columns.
What if I wanted for example to go here with the employee.
Let's see a name and again the length of the number of kempton's each kind.
So again in a month that they'll tell you okay.
Now I have six characters.
Now I have five characters.
Now I have four and I have four or five of his and so on so forth.
OK.
Or.
What if I wanted to let's say some or the number of use of experience within a column you get again.
It's like it's like excel when you write.
For example some men who specify the column what columns you want out of some major sum that you can
do in here and post are using penders that offering you get quality a D F square bracket years of experience
got a dart some that will simply sum up of the number of years of experience.
If you go back you sum up the platform at 7 7 and 10 that's 17 and that's how he come up with a number
of different teams thought a number of viewers.
OK.
What if he wanted to let's see perform some sorting and ordering.
So here let's assume I find the airframe PD the data frame.
That's again my exect and then from that the find before we know that we're very familiar with it and
what it could do here.
Ken let's see sort where the number of years of experience.
OK so let's assume they're going to be more this line first so I'm going to go now.
Just copy this.
Actually just let's copy it's going to create a cabinet and then get anymore.
This line at first in place two I'm going to show you what you mean by this.
Let's assume they're going to sort the array.
OK.
Sorry saw the pen did a frame by so called sort underscore values and by equal in this piece a five
give which column you're looking for to actually sort your pain there's the traffic.
If you run this then you will see the action sorted it.
So now you sort of the pen did a frame.
These a number of years of expediency you took.
Actually he had the bird put in number one and then he got this good three and then four and then nine.
That's how you do sorting it.
The key element here is that if I go up here and they find the f again and run it you will be surprised.
You'd be like okay what happened if you run d.f. again you will see that you actually did enchained
the order that'll be a repeat of the pair of the dataflow him anymore.
You actually went back to the original one.
Why.
Why event.
That's because you didn't put what we call in place equal to what happened here.
Event you simply.
Okay you perform that sort of thing.
But he actually didn't override the auditioner origin of the order to do that.
You have to specify in place equal to when you do this.
That means okay I am going to do the sorting by going to actually do that effectively on the actual
beta from the F.
So if you should run this d.f. AGAIN sort it underscores the values again by equals the user experience
the exact theme of this where instead you specify in place equates to true.
If you done this and if you run d.f. then you're going to come up with with the source of the error
they are going to be in.
Override the origin of the offering that you had before.
All right.
So now we know how can we perform sorting end or doing how can we do all our lies specific functions
to it.
And how can we apply logic loss of operations on penders the free or a.
Okay.
So how can we do concatenation and merging.
OK so let's assume that we have ceded freedoms the ef1 which is a fine he d.f. to and D3 and I wanted
to see concatenate them on to put them in one big data.
How can we do that.
Let's define them first.
So going to find them first as a dictionary you know using addition to the funky PD that they refrain
from gillispie swag in open brackets are going to have a which is a one a one in old in one with three
B again.
C indeed.
And here I'm going to specify my index we're going to be zidan want to see mr. on that.
And let's look at the d.f..
And that's kind of you know Minimed to sell your team.
We're going to find again another Matrix.
And I did a free but instead of having a naughty E3 we're going to have 47.
Great.
Let's run that.
Let's plug the d.f. too.
And that's the EF 2 again.
All right.
And he does specify the index they're going to be four five six and seven and that's why we're going
to come up with these indices here.
Here's the index was it 0 1 2 3.
Okay.
Hear that and this will d.f. to.
It's actually four five six seven or eight.
What if I wanted to let's say create them in a third date a frame.
That's how we define it and you plot it.
That will be my third offering if I wanted to simply concatenate.
When I see concatenate.
That means I'm going to put them all together.
I'm going to just like put them on top of each other.
You can specify that if I get PDA sense for a pen did a green dot cat concatenate open brackets and
then specify the agway and edf ONE first gift to an industry.
If you round that then you would come up with this big bedframe that has all these small offerings in
it altogether and that's simply what we have.
You have the one gift to give three.
You put them together you come up with the result here.
So let's take a look at another example.
So here if we let's say the time again another did a frame as a data okay with it contains again employee
I.D. which is want to see 45.
These are the first names of all the employees they have.
And these are the last names of other employees they have.
And let's assume that that's for example our engineering department.
So he could do that you can create PD.
They're free.
You define the raw data.
You can simply instead of actually find them separately.
You can buy them here again as kind of you know you do a dictionary and then he you specify OK.
That's my column and I'm looking for I'm looking for column employee I.D. I'm looking for a first name.
I'm looking for last name that would get to create your data.
If you run this this simply we're going to create a field that has employee I.D. for column QAs years
postponed.
Here have my first name here and last name here.
All right.
Let's assume may have for example another let's say five employees but they were clits in the finance
department.
So you know they find a complete ideas different obviously have six seven eight nine and 10 first name
bets and these are the first names.
And these are all the last names.
And he can define again PD that they add a frame create a frame out of the dictionary by specifying
the raw data that we have here and then specify what columns I'm looking for.
Right.
And they'll get going to be my finance department.
So these are the employee the part me that's my finance that's my finance department.
So what I could do here.
They can find again and other data field with has employee I.D. and have the standards simply put a
have a date a frame that has all the indices of employees and you had first name last name.
I'm going to find another in a frame that has again the seemingly I.D. but we have celebes only celeries
column only.
And then I wanted to see how can we merge them together.
Okay.
That's how can you do merging and joining within with impaired is the different.
All right so let's run this that want to create simply my employee I.D. here one two three four and
up until 10 with all the hourly salary.
So what I could do.
First they can actually concatenate which is just put them together the finest Department the imaging
department on top of each other.
Again I've done that before.
PD The DOD concat then you open up you specify this is going to be first the engineering department
and then the Pioneer's department.
If you've done that then you come up with simply put our our dinner frame here that has simply our engineering
first followed by the finance after what I could do.
After that I can again concatenate the finance department in the engineering department and can create
other deeded offerings here.
As you can see here instead of of running them by default penders we're just going to put them kind
of you know on top of each others what it could do.
We wanted to put them next to each other which is by the Collen can specify the axis if specify X equals
one.
That means we need to put this the first in a frame first followed by the one delivery.
Next which is by the column.
In general by default if you don't specify access or he specify exits will 0 they're going to put them
on top of each other.
Or it obviously I'm not going to use this because I need to match will join this basically with my salary
I need to join these two together.
So to do there then I can use Pedia that medrash and they can specify which column that it wanted to
merge together.
I don't want to repeat that idea because it's repeated in two separate data frames.
So we're going to say OK we need to demerge d.f. along with the d.f. sellery on and I specify my column
which column that it wanted to merge them together.
If I own this then you will see that's bewley's who is he that umpire.
You only have one employee I.D. I have or my first name last name and arming send and that's it.
That's pretty much all I have for penders Need a fee.
I hope you guys enjoy their section and see you in the next section.